---
title: October Film Roundup
url: http://www.crummy.com/2025/11/05/0
date: '2025-11-06'
author: ''
feed_url: https://www.crummy.com/rss.xml
---
Hopscotch (1980): Yes, a film I saw a long time ago and forgot to review. It wasn't that memorable, to be honest. In particular I don't think I ever felt like Walter Matthau's character was in danger. Truck Rascals (1975): This was entertaining enough but it felt a little bit... high-budget. The fight scenes and vehicular stunts were suspiciously well-produced for what I'd assumed was a random B-movie comedy. Then I did my usual post-film investigation and found that there were ten of these movies produced by Toei and released in a four-year time span! I guess the CB radio craze made everyone a bit truck-focused in the 70s. Between this and Tampopo and Supermarket Woman I feel like I'm getting a glimpse at a hidden Japanese trucker culture that only shows up in movies. I don't remember any highly customized trucks or restaurant brawls from my trip to Japan, although there was a poster at a rest stop asking you not to park your compact car into a parking space intended for a bus.   Exactly the sort of thing a "Compact Car Rascal" would do. Anyway, the movie's fun, but I don't think I could handle nine more in the series since Wikipedia says they all have the same plot. I have watched a ton of Fast and the Furious movies though, and those don't have any plot at all, so who knows? Joysticks (1983): Surprisingly, this 80s sex comedy about arcade games is not a good movie. The most enjoyable things about it are all bad things. Like the very first scene, where I was thinking "it doesn't look like they got a permit for this" and yes, they were just filming a movie with topless nudity in the middle of an LA street. Then there's the brief flight of fancy where the arcade owner (who's not sleazy enough to be funny and not emotion-y enough to be sympathetic) claims to the town worthies that his arcade is no den of sin, but a place of learning where he teaches computer science to underprivileged girls, creating new opportunities for women in STEM. The chalkboard behind him has a flowchart of the sort you'd draw if you'd looked at a book about data processing several weeks ago. The games themselves are filmed well, and it's pretty cool to have a tournament machine where the competitors must control a joystick that's as big as they are. But... the only joke in this supposed comedy which I would classify as "funny" is the way King Vidiot's groupies mutter the Burgertime song in unison as they shuffle around like zombies. That's, like, a Futurama -level joke. Paperhouse (1988): A child's magical drawing powers are rendered horrific and grotesque by the fact that kids can't draw for crap. This was a really pleasant surprise, not only in the clever concept and the Tiny Art Director -esque set and prop design, but in the screenplay's sympathy for the way everything seems emotionally huge and super important when you're a kid. Anna's dad shows up as a horrifying slasher-movie monster in the dream world, but in real life he's just a normal father who's absent and a bit distant. In possibly the greatest movie endorsement in cinema history, first-time actress Charlotte Burke never appeared in another film because (via the director via IMDB trivia) "she really loved Paperhouse so much, that she never wanted to do anything else and was done with acting." Minbo: The Gentle Art of Japanese Extortion (1992): Saw it with Sumana as part of our gradual Jūzō Itami catalog watch. This is a really didactic movie, in that it is structured to train you, a random civilian, how to deal with blustery yakuza. This means that there's a lot of wimpiness in the first part of the movie as the characters find their bearings. Eventually it picks up though and you get some good solidarity as the entire hotel staff, from the cleaning women to the Uncle Pennybags-looking chairman, stand together. Sumana posted her thoughts on the film to Metafilter. Tree of Life (2011): I admit I wanted to not like this movie. It's such a pretentious concept. I wouldn't have watched,  except I wanted to get out of the house and that's what was playing at the museum. But... it's pretty good! I was engaged the whole time, even though most of the scenes would sound really slow if I were to describe them to you. The dinosaur scene, in particular, really moved me in a way I'm not sure how to articulate. (Not the plesiosaur scene, plesiosaurs aren't dinosaurs.) I was also getting an Omega Point vibe from the ending, which is... underutilized in film, I would say. I also love that they brought Douglas Trumbull out of retirement for one... more... job. Although I don't think this movie came up when I saw him in person at the ST:TMP screening in 2020. Disjunct audiences, I guess.
